Consider the following example from the aviation industry: the aircraft registration
number is a standardized alphanumeric identifier for aircraft and is used world-wide.
Each number has a prefix that indicates the country where the aircraft is registered. For
example, the registration number “D-EBUT” originates from Germany (because of the
prefix “D”). Numbers from Germany are actually “smart keys,”.
In the case of the German aircraft with the registration “D-EBUT”, the second character indicates that the plane is
a single-engine aircraft. In the US, the prefix “N” is common. Until December 31, 1948,
there was also a second prefix (the second letter in the number) that was used to indicate
the category of the aircraft

Category Prefixes in the USA until December 1948
Category
C Commercial and private airline
G Glider
L Limited
R Restricted (e.g., cropdusters and racing aircrafts)
S State
X Experimental

For example, the aircraft with the registration number N-X-211 is registered in the
experimental category.
However, the FAA decided to stop using the second prefix and now issues numbers
between 3 (N1A) and 6 characters (N99999) without any other meaning, except for the
first prefix which indicates the origination country. In fact, the second letter is always a
number between 1 and 9.
Now, consider the effect of this change on your data warehouse. If the category has
been extracted from the (now historic) N-Number, the second letter would be used to
identify the aircraft category just after loading the data from the stage area into the
normalized data warehouse, where the category would most probably be a column in the
aircraft table. Once the numbers change, however, there would be only a number
between 1 and 9 in the second position of the registration number, which has no
meaning. In order to update the business rule, the easiest approach would be to
introduce a new category (“Unknown category”) where those aircraft are mapped to if
the second letter in the registration number is from 1 to 9. However, because there will be
no new aircraft with a category other than the unknown, it is reasonable to remove the
category completely (unless you focus on the analysis of historic aircraft). That makes
even more sense if you consider that today’s aircraft are categorized by the operation
code, air-worthiness class, and other categories at the same time, making the
categorization above invalid.

Therefore, this change in the business rule requires the replacement of the category by
multiple new categories. In the normalized data warehouse, we would have to remove the
old category column and add multiple category references to the aircraft. After changing
the ETL jobs that load the data from the stage into the normalized data warehouse, we
can change the information mart that is built on top of the data warehouse layer and
modify the data mart ETL routines.

In the Data Vault 2.0 architecture, the categorization of an aircraft would be loaded
into a table called a satellite that contains descriptive data.

When the logic in the source system changes – in this case, the format of the N-Number – the old satellite is closed (no new
data is loaded into the current satellite). All new data is loaded into a new satellite with 
an updated structure that meets the structure of the source data. In this process, there
are no business rules implemented. All data is loaded. Because there are now two tables,
one holding historic data and the other new data, it is easy to implement the business
rule when loading the data from the Data Vault into the information mart. It is also easy
to build one information mart for the analysis of historic, older aircraft and another
information mart for the analysis of modern aircraft that have been built after 1948.



