In the Data Vault Hub’s (1 on 1 with the natural business key) and Link’s (1 on 1 with the natural business relationship) 
do not keep track of history,  so only a Technical date is needed. 
This is the Load_DTS which can be found in each table!

From a Vault perspective the date when a record is created (in the source) 
is descriptive information! This means that this date is only to be found in Satellites. 

Technical Date – addressing the date on which the record is available for the data warehouse load. 
(the date on which the record is pushed into or pulled to the data warehouse). 
Preferably this includes the timestamp as well.
--The Technical date is used for auditability reasons. Is the only date which will be available in 
  all Data Vault tables (Hub’s, Link’s and Satellites).

Source Date – this is the date the record is created or altered in the source system. 
This date needs to be given by the source system! This can be the creation date or update date in the source. 
This date is always before the technical date (a record can’t be available in the staging area 
when it is not yet created or updated in the original source system). 
For a real time data warehouse the Source effective date and the Technical date can be the same 
if the data is pushed into the source and the data warehouse at the same time.
--The Source date is used for validness of the data for the business. Only in the Satellites 
  (preferably for all satellites).

Attribute Dates – these are dates which provide context for the business, e.g. a valid from and 
valid to date or start date and end date of an arrangement, mortgage, etc. 
From a data warehouse perspective these dates are just like name, address, etc.–> 
just a description (but an important one for the business).
--The Attribute dates are used to give meaning to the business. Only in Satellites (where applicable)

From a source we may receive the following dates:

Creation_date: the date the record is created
Startdate_contract: is the date the customer sees on his contract as being the agreed start date
Enddate_contract: is the date the customer sees on his contract as being the agreed end date

This will result in fields such as below in the satellite.
LOAD_DTS is added by the loading process as is Record_Source

Source:   Satellite
Creation_data:
	--Startdata_contract
Startdata_contract:
	--Effective_DTS
Enddate_contract:
	--Enddate_contract
description1
	--description1
description2
	--description

#what if we want to add end dates to our satellites.
End dates are very useful for reporting or data mart creation, time slicing, 
keeping track of history, etc. The problem with end dates is that these will only 
be known when a record is altered in the source. This means that the existing (now old) 
record needs to be updated.

Looking at the satellite we have a Load_DTS (technical date) which means the date the record 
is loaded into the data warehouse. Since the end date was not known at that moment the 
Load_DTS is wrong for the end date and should need an update as well. However, 
if we do that we lose the auditability for the other attributes which were set on the original Load_DTS. 
This concludes into an extra Technical date, Load_End_Dts, which meets the date the end date is updated

This will give the following dates in the satellites (Note: Hub’s and Link’s only have the technical Load_DTS):

Load_DTS:
Technical Date: This is the data warehouse load Date_Time_Stamp and one of the untouchables of Data Vault. 
This is assigned by the data warehouse and based on the date and time of the load from Stage 
to the Data Warehouse. All Data Vault tables include this Load D/T as a required attribute. 
Note however that only the Satellite will use this Load D/T as part of the key.

Src_Eff_DT:
Source date: This is the date which implies the date the record is originated or changed in the source. 
This date is only available in the satellites. The importance of this date is to be sure that
we not only know when the data arrived into the data warehouse (that is done by Load_DTS)
 but also when the record is created/updated by the business .
If this date cannot be delivered by the source (is not stored in the source system)  
an alternative should be chosen. 

This can be the extraction date as being the date on which the record is extracted from the source. 
Importance of this date is, amongst others, when building a dimension –
 this date will be used to  and provides the dates upon which historization is based.

Src_End_DT:
Source date: This is the date which is set when a record is changed – a new record will be inserted 
and the current record will be end dated. This will be done based upon the Buss_Eff_Date. 
This is one of the two records in a satellite which might have an update. 
All other records are insert only. Main reason for using the Buss_End_Date is for 
retrieving data with a time context (for instance building a dimension with historization) .

Load_End_DTS

Technical date: When the Srcs_End_DT is set  we need to know on which date this is technically 
done for audit and compliancy reasons. This is maintained by the Load_End_DTS.

The Source dates will be the dates which  likely to be used to determine the history in the reports or datamarts.







