Problem 1: Language School
Mr. Trotter, the proprietor of a rapidly-growing language school, 
wants to introduce a new system in his company. He can no longer
 keep track of all the information on his own, so he’s asked for our help. 
He is a bit chaotic, though. This is what he said:
There are dozens of new people coming here and I no longer know what to do! 
For example, last week a girl named Hannah came and
 she wanted to become a student, but I couldn’t find my notebook so 
I couldn’t write her surname down. 
Then she asked about the kind of courses we offer and well… 
we have lots of them, so I showed her the calendar 
where I write down all the classes. She picked Chinese and then asked 
who taught it. Well, I said, we have many teachers here, 
so I started looking in my e-mail box to see who I wrote about teaching
 Chinese this term. It took longer than I expected 
and Hannah left. What a pity!




























Based on the description, suggest a few entities for Mr. Trotter’s new system so that he can run his school more effectively.
Solution:
At first, Mr. Trotter provides the example of Hannah who wants to sign up for a course. In our system,
 she would be one of many instances of the entity Student. Students in our system sign up for a Course, 
which is another good candidate for an entity. Finally, the girl asks about the Teacher – naturally, 
we want to keep track of them as well, so they become the third entity.

Course, Student, Teacher

================
Problem 2: Busy Writer
Joanne L. Bowling works for various companies and writes things for them. 
She is very busy and would like to have convenient 
application that keeps track of everything she has written. 
This application will be in the form of a portfolio. This is how she described her work:
I’m very talented and I write tons of different things. For instance, 
last week I wrote an article about the latest economic 
crisis for a newspaper. I don’t know much about economics,
 but I read a bit and I was able to compose a nice little article. 
On the other hand, a month ago another famous newspaper published 
a serial I did. Well, that one was about the history of art
 in the Netherlands. I already had some knowledge in the field because 5 years ago I wrote a book on Rembrandt – which 
was published last year, by the way. It’s almost always the same when I work with newspapers; their assignments are quick and easy. 
It’s another story with publishing houses, though. Verification, editing... there are so many steps and so many deadlines 
that I need to remember!

Based on the description, suggest a few general entities that could be used in an application for Joanne to track 
everything she’s written. Think about the following question: what kind of things has she written and where has she published them?
Solution:
As we can see, Joanne writes two kinds of compositions. The first are shorter articles that are published in newspapers.
 They are quick assignments and don’t require much information. The second type of composition is longer and more complicated 
– writing books. They are published by publishing houses. It’s better to keep them as a separate entity. All in all,
 we have two main categories of things Joanne writes: Article and Book. We also have two categories of companies 
who publish them: Newspaper and Publishing House.

Article, Book, Newspaper & PublishingHouse.

======================
Problem 3: Movie Database
John is a zealous film student and wants to create a new website about movies. He described the idea this way:

There will be information about various things in my database. First of all, there will be movies, different kinds of them. 
In each movie, there are actors – I want to store information about them too. Not only professional data, like the movies 
they played in, but also some funny things or some personal information. Then, there are directors. They are very important
 in movies, so I want to write about them too. And movie studios, of course! Not many websites mention them, but they are 
important to me as well. Finally, there will be reviews for all of the movies.

Based on the above description, suggest some entities for John’s movie database.
We can clearly identify 5 entities in the description: Movie, Actor, Director, Studio and Review.

